---
title: "Prisme: Privacy focused Google analytics alternative"
layout: "post.tsx"

metas:
  title: "Prisme: Privacy focused Google analytics alternative"
  description: "Prisme Analytics: Privacy-first web analytics without personal data collection. Track website usage ethically with our cookie-free, GDPR-compliant solution. Get actionable insights while respecting visitor privacy. Try our 30-day free trial today!"
  keywords:
    - Prisme Cloud
    - Analytics platform
    - Data visualization
    - Open-source analytics
    - Prisme Analytics
    - Open source web analytics
    - privacy-friendly analytics
    - GDPR-compliant web tracking
    - cookie-free analytics
    - ethical website monitoring
    - open-source analytics
    - EU-hosted analytics
    - lightweight website stats
    - anonymous visitor tracking
    - Google Analytics alternative
    - data privacy
    - website insights
    - no personal data collection
    - transparent web analytics
    - self-hosted analytics option
    - privacy-focused metrics
structuedData:
  - "@context": https://schema.org
    "@type": BlogPosting
    mainEntityOfPage:
      "@type": WebPage
      "@id": https://www.prismeanalytics.com/c/is/privacy-focused
    headline: "Prisme: Privacy focused Google analytics alternative"
    description: "Prisme Analytics: Privacy-first web analytics without personal data collection. Track website usage ethically with our cookie-free, GDPR-compliant solution. Get actionable insights while respecting visitor privacy. Try our 30-day free trial today!"
    image:
      "@type": ImageObject
      url: https://www.prismeanalytics.com/images/web-analytics-dashboard-light.png
    author:
      "@type": Person
      name: Alexandre Negrel
      url: https://www.negrel.dev
    publisher:
      "@type": Organization
      name: Prisme Analytics
      logo:
        "@type": ImageObject
        url: https://www.prismeanalytics.com/logo.png
    keywords:
      - Prisme Cloud
      - Analytics platform
      - Data visualization
      - Open-source analytics
      - Prisme Analytics
      - Open source web analytics
      - privacy-friendly analytics
      - GDPR-compliant web tracking
      - cookie-free analytics
      - ethical website monitoring
      - EU-hosted analytics
      - lightweight website stats
      - anonymous visitor tracking
      - Google Analytics alternative
      - data privacy
      - website insights
      - no personal data collection
      - transparent web analytics
      - self-hosted analytics option
      - privacy-focused metrics
---

Prisme Analytics offers a unique approach to website tracking, prioritizing user
privacy without compromising on valuable insights. Our service allows you to
monitor website usage without collecting personal data or personally
identifiable information (PII), eliminating the need for cookies while
respecting visitor privacy.

With Prisme Analytics, all site measurements are conducted anonymously. We don't
set cookies or gather personal data, focusing solely on aggregate information.
This approach provides website owners with actionable insights to improve their
sites while ensuring visitors enjoy a seamless, privacy-respecting experience.

Discover why Prisme Analytics stands out as a privacy-friendly alternative to
Google Analytics:

![Prisme: Privacy-friendly website analytics](/images/web-analytics-dashboard-light.png)

## Transparent, Open-Source web analytics software

Prisme Analytics is built on [Open Source](/is/open-source-website-analytics/)
principles. Our entire codebase is
[accessible on GitHub](https://github.com/prismelabs/analytics), allowing anyone
to review and verify our privacy practices. This transparency is crucial in the
privacy software market, where proprietary solutions may not always be
trustworthy. By opening our code to expert scrutiny, we prove our commitment to
privacy protection.

## EU-Based, european-owned cloud infrastructure

As a small team based in the EU with Estonian incorporation, we prioritize data
security and compliance with EU privacy laws. This setup addresses concerns
related to Schrems II and the EU-US Privacy Shield, as your website data never
leaves the EU.

## Independent, self-funded, and subscriber-supported

Prisme Analytics operates independently, without external investors or corporate
influence. We're committed to our vision and funded solely by our subscribers,
rejecting all investment offers to maintain our focus on user privacy.

## Minimalist data collection approach

We believe in collecting only essential data points, contrasting with tools like
Google Analytics that gather vast amounts of information. Our streamlined
approach not only enhances privacy but also simplifies analytics interpretation.
[Prisme Analytics is 75 times lighter](/is/lightweight-analytics/) than Google
Analytics, improving site performance and reducing your carbon footprint.
Explore our [live demo dashboard](https://app.prismeanalytics.com/grafana) to
see the concise data we collect.

## Aggregate-Only, personal data-free analytics

Prisme Analytics collects no personal data or PII. Our focus is on overall
traffic trends rather than individual tracking. All data is aggregated, ensuring
visitor privacy while providing valuable insights. Unlike server logs, which may
reveal IP addresses, Prisme Analytics offers a more privacy-friendly solution.

## Device-Isolated, single-site tracking

We don't track users across devices, websites, or apps. Each data point is
isolated to a single device and website, reset daily. This approach prevents
cross-device or cross-site user profiling.

## Cookie-Free, consent-free analytics

Prisme Analytics operates without cookies or persistent identifiers, ensuring
compliance with GDPR, PECR, and various cookie laws. This cookie-free approach
eliminates the need for visitor consent, simplifying your site's user
experience.

## User-Owned, fully controlled data

With Prisme Analytics, you retain 100% ownership and control of your website
data. While we host the analytics, you can delete all collected data at any
time, maintaining full control over your information.

## No third-party data sharing

We never share, sell, or send your website data to advertisers or third parties.
Your analytics are not monetized or mined for behavioral trends, aligning with
our commitment to privacy.

## Ethical alternative to surveillance capitalism

Our subscription-based model stands in contrast to surveillance capitalism. We
rely on our community of users rather than exploiting visitor data for
advertising purposes.

## Self-Hosting option available

For those preferring complete control, Prisme Analytics offers a self-hosted
version. While our cloud version provides hassle-free management, self-hosting
gives you additional flexibility and control.

## Ready to embrace privacy-focused analytics?

[Experience Prisme Analytics with our 30-day free trial - no credit card
required](https://app.prismeanalytics.com/authn/sign_up). Our
[lightweight](/is/lightweight-analytics/) script allows you to run Prisme
alongside your current analytics, enabling a smooth transition to
privacy-friendly web analytics. Start your journey towards ethical, insightful
website tracking today!
